# The Dilemma With Romance as a Business and How Tinder Solves It
This is the culmination of my senior capstone project - a solo research venture into how dating networks such as Tinder operate, and the creation of a mathematical model for a hypothetical, "ideal" dating network. 

The paper was written in LaTeX using the website Overleaf and the XeLaTeX compiler. Figures were created with draw.io (now diagrams.net). 

The abstract from the paper:  "It is paradoxical for an optimal online dating service to exist since a service which pairs all of its users will have no customers. As such, Tinder's algorithms must balance the user's desire to be paired in a relationship with Tinder's need for enough users to run a successful business. However, these algorithms are  proprietary and confidential, requiring an outside analysis in order to determine how they function. We start by observing applications of the stable marriage problem in set theory, graph theory, and network science to determine how an online dating service can optimally match users. We then introduce the concept of reciprocal recommender systems to strengthen the connection between the stable marriage problem and Tinder. These insights are used to create a model for the optimal online dating service to show that Tinder is capable of performing optimally, but must de-optimize itself to prevent pairing all users in relationships. It is determined that premium features are strong de-optimization methods as they keep users within Tinder's user base while also increasing the service's revenue."
